How Python Works Internally
Python is a high-level, interpreted programming language, but internally it uses several steps to execute a program.

1. Python Source Code
We first write Python code in a .py file.

x = 10
print(x)
2. Lexical Analysis
Python reads the source code and breaks it into tokens such as keywords, identifiers, operators, and literals.

For example:

x = 10
is divided into tokens like x, =, and 10.

3. Parsing
Python checks the syntax of the code and builds an internal structure called an Abstract Syntax Tree (AST).

If the syntax is incorrect, Python raises a SyntaxError.

4. Bytecode Compilation
The Python source code is compiled into bytecode.

Bytecode is an intermediate, platform-independent set of instructions. It is often stored in .pyc files inside the __pycache__ directory.

Example:

.py file
   ↓
Bytecode
   ↓
.pyc file (when applicable)
5. Python Virtual Machine (PVM)
The Python Virtual Machine (PVM) executes the bytecode instruction by instruction.

The PVM is the main component responsible for running Python bytecode.

Python Code (.py)
       ↓
   Tokenization
       ↓
     Parsing
       ↓
  Compilation
       ↓
    Bytecode
       ↓
      PVM
       ↓
     Output
6. Memory Management
Python automatically manages memory using mechanisms such as:

Reference counting

Garbage collection

Private heap

Memory allocators

For example:

a = 10
b = a
Both a and b can refer to the same integer object in memory.

7. Python Interpreter
The term Python interpreter generally refers to the implementation that reads/executes Python programs. The most widely used implementation is CPython.

Other implementations include PyPy, Jython, and IronPython.

Simple Summary
Python internally works approximately like this:

Source Code → Tokens → AST → Bytecode → Python Virtual Machine → Machine-level operations → Output

This process allows Python to provide a simple programming experience while handling compilation, execution, and memory management internally.



